---
layout: post
title: "My Recipe for \"Adult\" Cookies"
date: 2026-04-30
categories: [blog, cooking]
---

I love cookies, or, as they are called in Germany, "American Cookies", or, as they are called in America, "Chocolate chip cookies".

However, I am part of the [hypocritical elite](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2hrTRNv1DZ8) that does not enjoy sweets loaded with fats and sugars to the brim anymore.
Nowadays, I look to what you might call "healthy" versions of snacks. 
If you want to appear really smart, you can call them "adult variants" with "complex flavor profiles" full of "homemade goodness".

Anyway, this is the recipe that I came up with and I like making at the moment.
It balances some elements of sweetness with things like bitterness that make the cookies feel more like actual nutrition.

## Ingredients

- 110g of coconut oil 
  - Substitute: 110g of butter
- 110g of granulated white sugar
- 40g of molasses
  - Substitute: Leave out the molasses and white sugar; instead, use 150g of brown sugar
- 1/2 teaspoon of vanilla extract
  - Substitute: Replace some of the white sugar with vanilla sugar
- 1 egg
- 175g of all-purpose flour (Germany: Type 550 wheat flour)
- 25g of a "darker" flour: Whole wheat, spelt, rye, ...
  - Substitute: 25g more of the all-purpose flour
- 1/4 teaspoon of baking powder
- 1 teaspoon of salt
- 1/2 teaspoon of MSG
  - Substitute: it's optional, just leave it
- 170g of dark chocolate chips / chopped dark chocolate
- 50g of chopped pecan nuts
  - Substitute: it's optional, just leave it

## Steps

1. Warm up the fat. If you are using butter, this can be done by leaving it at room-temperature. For coconut oil, I recommend using the microwave.
2. Mix the fat, sugar, molasses, and vanilla extract until it becomes a homogenous mass.
3. Add the egg to the mixture and mix it in.
4. In a separate bowl, mix flour, baking powder, salt, and MSG. (The point of this is to prevent clumps.) Then, incorporate it into the wet ingredients.
5. Finally, incorporate the chocolate and nuts. If you have been using an electric mixer so far, you probably want to switch to a spoon or spatula at this step, as the dough can become hard to work with.
6. Let the dough cool in the fridge for at least 3 hours.
7. Divide the dough into 12 equal pieces (for medium-sized cookies), form them into balls, and place them on a baking sheet.
8. Pre-heat your oven to 180°C ("conventional" oven / top-and-bottom-heat).
9. Bake the cookies for 10 minutes. Let them cool (best case, on a cooling rack) before eating.